h1. The Privly Opera Extension

Opera handles extensions in a much different way than Firefox and Chrome. This document details the differences and other information that might be useful.

h2. How To Use The Opera Extension

The Alpha Release (i.e. version 0.1.1.2) has been accepted into the "Opera Extensions Catalog":https://addons.opera.com/en/addons/extensions/.
"Click here":https://addons.opera.com/en/extensions/details/privly/?display=en to download it.

If you prefer not to wait, you can try out Privly in "developer mode". Just download the source and drag the config.xml file into your Opera browser to install it.

h2. Caveats
* No Context Menu API
** It is impossible to extend Opera's context menu in versions 11.x and below. However, Opera devs have promised a Context Menu API for Opera 12.
* Inter-Script Communication
** Opera offers its own "Messaging API":http://dev.opera.com/articles/view/extensions-api-messaging/ along with a "bgProcess":http://dev.opera.com/articles/view/extensions-api-messaging-bgProcess/ object for inter-script communication. "Click here":http://dev.opera.com/articles/view/accessing-an-opera-extensions-background-process/ for more information on how messaging works with bgProcess.
* No Cross-Origin Web Requests
** This is most probably a bug as Opera does allow the "access tag":http://dev.opera.com/articles/view/extensions-api-config-access/ in the extension's config file.
** A current workaround is to either use JSONP (which is not currently supported by Privly) or a jQuery Hack ( $.support.cors = true; )
* No direct access of child objects of the window object.
** All child objects (location, XPathResult, addEventHandler) need to be prefixed with 'window'. (window.location, window.XPathResult, window.addEventHandler)
* Opera hates bad code
** Most Javascript errors cause the extension to stop working. For example, in the resizeIframe function in privly.js, a string is expected. However, a MessageType object is also sent once by the browser. Other browsers ignore the error caused by attempting a split() on an Object but Opera doesn't like it at all.
